Newsletter: The stuff nobody tells you about startup marketing (#16803)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/newsletter/startup-marketing-for-noobs.md

Marketing is simply closing the gap between what you're building and the people who'd care about it. Our handbook is a good example: James and Tim knew early users might doubt there was a real company behind PostHog, so they published all internal processes and values on the main website to build credibility fast.

So no, you don't need a fancy strategy, brand guidelines, a content calendar, or a paid budget. Just figure out what your audience finds interesting and talk about it. Plus, when you treat marketing this way, your brand will be that much more authentic.

## 2. Depth-first > breadth-first

So you have something working. Yay.

The instinct at this point is to write a list of 5-10 other channels to try in the hope that one of them also works. This is a great way to end up, six months later, with a pile of stuff that didn't work and no idea why.

It's much better to do more of the thing that's already showing signs of life. If you went mildly viral on LinkedIn, keep posting every day. If a podcast appearance converted, email another hundred. If a blog post got picked up, write the next one. And the next one.

> That's what we did early on to [get our first 1,000 users](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/how-we-got-our-first-1000-users). When we saw early success with our HN launch, James kept serial posting founder blogs about everything behind the scenes:

Reviewer: should we like to the .com version instead here /founders/first-1000-users

Author: YES thank you for the catch! claude let me down :(

> That's what we did early on to [get our first 1,000 users](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/how-we-got-our-first-1000-users). When we saw early success with our HN launch, James kept serial posting founder blogs about everything behind the scenes:

Author: ```suggestion
That's what we did early on to [get our first 1,000 users](/founders/first-1000-users). When we saw early success with our HN launch, James kept serial posting founder blogs about everything behind the scenes:
```

The right first channels depend on whether you're running a [PLG (product-led growth)](/founders/product-led-growth) or sales-led motion. If you're not sure which one you are yet, you need to [define your ICP first](/newsletter/ideal-customer-profile-framework) – it's your map converting potential users into paying customers.

If you're PLG, your early wins are going to come from places where your users already hang out: Hacker News, Reddit, X, dev communities, tutorials, docs, etc. The goal here is to widen the beginning of your funnel. Other things that help with this include branding, ads, and word of mouth growth. If done well, customers will come to you rather than the other way around.

(We are obviously hideously biased, but if you are seeing early signs of PLG working, keep going! It's an incredibly efficient way to build a business.)

If you're sales-led, from what I've heard from marketers at other companies, your early wins are going to come from more targeted approaches. You'll be the one going up to them. Think direct outreach, industry events, partnerships, and the founder's own network. Get on the podcasts your buyers listen to. Turn up to AWS Re:invent. 😤🔥

> In either case, however, [don't start with SEO](/newsletter/seo-for-startups). SEO is also one of those domains that takes a very long time, and requires you to know what you're doing. It is _very_ hard to vibe-SEO. Same goes for AEO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In either case, however, [don't start with SEO](/newsletter/seo-for-startups). SEO is also one of those domains that takes a very long time, and requires you to know what you're doing. It is _very_ hard to vibe-SEO. [Same goes for AEO.](/blog/aeo-advice)
```

hehe

Author: heck yeah
